Welcome to JW Broadcasting. Here are some highlights from this month's program.
What should we do if we encounter spiritism in some form?
And how can we help others break free from it?
This dramatization will provide some valuable principles.
We've all beheld the wonders of creation.
This month's beautiful music video will move us to pause, think, and thank Jehovah for his magnificent works.
And we go to World Headquarters to visit another museum.
We'll see how, in our time, Jehovah is blessing a people for his name.
This is the August 2019 edition of JW Broadcasting.
Our broadcast this month has the theme, Cherish your privilege of prayer.
Do you think it's appropriate to label prayer as a miracle?
Miracles are described in our New World Translation Glossary of Bible terms as actions are phenomena that surpass all powers known to humans and are attributed to a supernatural agency.
Does prayer fit that description?
The moment you say a prayer, your innermost thoughts and feelings are communicated instantly to the creator from wherever you are, even if you pray silently.
That certainly beyond any power humans know.
Therefore, the fact that a human can call out to God in prayer and be heard by Him is truly a miracle.
It's only by the undeserved kindness of Jehovah that we can approach his heavenly throne in prayer.
Today our lives are very complicated and in some cases very troubled.
Whether young or old, there are times we may feel overwhelmed with our problems.
At other times we may simply feel alone and helpless.
What can we do?
The Apostle Paul says that prayer will help.
Please open your Bible to Philippians 4-6 and listen to his spirit inspired recommendations.
Do not be anxious over anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication, along with thanksgiving, let your petitions be made known to God.
So Paul is saying that in all circumstances of life, prayer is essential.
While no one around us can see the inner struggles we may be having, Jehovah sees them.
What will you do?
Let's read verse 7.
And the peace of God that surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and your mental powers by means of Christ Jesus.
This incomparable peace of God is an unusual tranquility enjoyed by Jehovah's dedicated servants, even in the most trying circumstances.
Have you felt that inner peace that results from intimate communication with Jehovah?
How much we benefit from prayer is closely related to the strength of our personal relationship with Jehovah.
A key factor in that relationship is found at Psalm 37-3.
Trust in Jehovah and do what is good, reside in the earth and act with faithfulness.
Likely, you'd agree that when we need to talk to someone about our worries, we go to a trusted friend. Why?
It's because we've developed a relationship with him.
He knows us and our situation, and we know we can count on him.
More than ever, we need a close personal relationship with Jehovah.
For that to be possible, we must be convinced that Jehovah knows who we are and that he understands us, our situation, our worries, our concerns, and our needs.
Notice what Jehovah promises in verses 4 and 5.
Find exquisite delight in Jehovah, and he will grant you the desires of your heart.
Commit your way to Jehovah, rely on him, and he will act in your behalf.
Jehovah does know who we are. He understands us better than anyone else, even better than we understand ourselves.
He invites us to trust him, and he promises to act in our behalf.
The miracle of prayer lets us experience Jehovah's love in a truly intimate way.
Our Father personally takes the time to listen to us. He has not delegated that to anyone else.
However, you might be wondering, why would the Creator of the universe want to listen to me?
The inspired answer at 1 Peter 5.7 says, because he cares for you.
Your determination to keep doing the best you can to serve him in spite of all the problems you face endears you to him.
He feels for you and is eager to help.
How does that make you feel? At Psalm 111, it says,
I love Jehovah because he hears my voice, my pleas for help.
Even though we can't see him listening to us, it's as if we feel Jehovah's loving arms around us when we pray.
As a result, the more we pray, the more our love and trust in him grows.
What else will help us to build our love and trust in our God, Jehovah?
It's more than recognizing that he hears our prayers. We must be convinced that he answers our prayers.
What evidence do we have that Jehovah answers prayers?
Let's look at some specific answers to prayers both past and present.
Open your Bible to 2 Chronicles 20.
When Judah was threatened by the combined forces of Ammon and Moab in the mountainous region of Seer,
King Jehosaphat humbly prayed for Jehovah's help.
In verse 12, he prayed,
Oh, our God, will you not execute judgment on them?
For we are powerless before this large crowd that is coming against us,
and we do not know what we should do, but our eyes are toward you.
What was Jehovah's answer?
There was no voice from heaven. Jehovah caused a prophet to speak up.
Verse 15 says,
Here is what Jehovah says to you,
Do not be afraid or be terrified because of this large crowd for the battle is not yours, but God's.
Then verse 17 continues,
You will not need to fight this battle.
Take your position, stand still and see the salvation of Jehovah in your behalf.
Did you note the formula?
Jehovah's dedicated servant is facing a serious problem.
He prays specifically,
and then he remains attentive to the answer.
The answer may have seemed strange to Jehosaphat.
Jehovah didn't provide a battle plan.
As strategies go,
just walking out to meet the enemy doesn't sound like a very good one.
But Jehosaphat discerned that this was the answer from Jehovah,
and he let it direct his actions.
What happened?
Jehovah fought for Judah by striking confusion into the ranks of the enemy so that they slaughtered one another.
Jehosaphat's prayer was answered in a mighty way.
We have examples in the first century of collective prayers being answered.
One occasion was when King Herod was out to gain the favor of the Jews.
So he had the Apostle Peter imprisoned and placed under heavy guard.
What would the congregation do?
Acts 12-5 gives us the answer.
So Peter was being kept in the prison,
but the congregation was intensely praying to God for him.
Did Jehovah answer their prayers in behalf of Peter?
The account in verses 7-11 tells us that an angel of Jehovah led Peter out of jail
and delivered him to safety.
Imagine how these events must have drawn the Christians in Jerusalem closer to Jehovah
when they saw that he had answered their prayers.
What about today?
Consider the example of our brothers in South Korea.
Over the years, more than 19,000 of our brothers have been imprisoned as conscientious objectors to military service.
Did you personally pray in behalf of these brothers that they might endure in their faith or that they might be released from prison
if it was Jehovah's will?
We're sure you did.
In fact, many of you prayed for these brothers by name,
just as the congregation in the first century prayed in behalf of Peter.
With what result?
In 2018, a series of court rulings in South Korea finally recognized conscientious objection to military service
for religious reasons as a fundamental human right,
and our brothers were gradually released from their prison bonds.
What do you think?
Did Jehovah hear our prayers in behalf of these dear brothers?
As a worldwide brotherhood, there can be no doubt that our incessant prayers to Jehovah were a major factor
in these marvelous developments, and we praise and thank Jehovah that he's heard our prayers.
What does this review of how Jehovah answered the prayers of his servants in the past and present due for us?
Doesn't it build confidence that Jehovah is listening and acting on the prayers of his people?
The Apostle John had that confidence.
He wrote at first John 514,
and this is the confidence that we have toward him,
that no matter what we ask according to his will, he hears us.
But now the question is, when was the last time that Jehovah answered one of your personal prayers?
We spend much time on learning how to pray and what to pray for,
but do we put forth enough effort on identifying the answers to our prayers?
For us to have the closeness to Jehovah, we must be certain that he's listening and responding to our personal prayers.
It may not always be readily discernible just how some prayers are answered.
So what can we do?
Take time to meditate on Jehovah's response to your prayerful requests.
If you're married, freely discuss matters that you've prayed for in common
and how Jehovah may be answering those prayers.
Be observant and alert to things that are happening around you
and learn to connect these things with the answers to your prayers.
Make your prayers more specific and you'll become more keenly aware of Jehovah's answers,
even though they may be subtle.
Identifying your answered prayers will make Jehovah more real to you.
This process of identifying answers to our prayers should be learned early on in one spiritual development.
We cannot take it for granted that our children or our Bible students will connect the answers they receive to the prayers they've offered.
One witness said, I find that people feel closer to God if I help them to recognize answers to their prayers.
What if we can't identify the answer to one of our prayers?
Does that mean it wasn't according to Jehovah's will?
Not necessarily.
There are two important factors that might be involved.
One is that Jehovah knows the best time and way to answer our prayers.
He takes all matters into consideration.
The answer may not come according to our time table, but it will come.
So we must be patient and keep looking for the answer.
The second factor that Jehovah considers is the issue raised by Satan regarding man's integrity.
Listen again to the challenge Satan makes as recorded at Job 1, 10, and 11.
Have you not put up a protective hedge around him in his house and everything he has?
You have blessed the work of his hands and his livestock his spread out in the land.
But for a change, stretch out your hand and strike everything he has and he will surely curse you to your very face.
Jehovah permitted this issue to be raised out of love for his intelligent creatures.
He permitted Job to undergo a test by Satan before the entire universe.
Jehovah gives his creatures the privilege of proving the devil a liar and of removing the slander not only from God's name, but also from their own.
So Jehovah seeing the entire issue may allow his servants to endure trials.
But that doesn't mean he's not answering the prayer the afflicted.
When we're under trial, we may have prayed for relief, but we may have also prayed let your name be sanctified.
We must remain convinced that Jehovah will not simply answer a prayer he will provide the best answer.
Isn't it true that when we maintain our integrity, even through serious illness, it can be a tremendous witness to others?
That was the case with Jared Scepter.
Cutsworth says, remember then your grand creator in the days of your youth before the days of your stress calm.
In the days of distress, they arrived early on Jared at 11.
Jared was diagnosed with lymphoma cancer in the middle of 1991.
We started trying to figure out how we could get him the treatment that he needed of course, but in no way would we accept a blood transfusion and neither would Jared.
But Jared was in the hospital child protection services did investigate us. They were concerned there was negligence.
It was just adding to the pain.
The way it turned out, they back completely away from that. They realized we hadn't been negligent.
So as we face different situations, we pray at the time not to have miraculous answers, but for Jehovah to open our eyes and to be able to find things and it seemed as though he was really directing us so that we could take care of ourselves spiritually through this situation as well as take care of Jared's medical needs.
I remember many times falling on my knees and praying and thinking this is it, I'm test to be on what I can bear and Jehovah would strengthen me.
And someone would come or they would say something and they fed us.
The brother made a schedule and he said, you're going to feed these friends.
And the brother's instructions were, you don't bring it and just drop the food, you stay with those friends.
It made me cry, the love, and the caring that we experienced.
One time I remember the hallways of this hospital, 1500 miles away from our hope, started filling up with people.
To me, that's answering prayers too.
It was hard for us to get out of the hospital.
So they recorded talks, they would look us in the eye and they'd say, now you need to listen to this. It will keep you strong.
Jared was worried about us and he made it clear. He was going to be fine. He just didn't know if we were going to be.
He died in June of 1992. He was at home.
And the last thing he said to us was, work hard so we can all be together again.
It's numbing because it's almost like you're living in nightmare.
Because you never think that those things all happened to you.
But it did. I didn't want people to see me cry. I didn't want pity.
I didn't. Because of that, those negative feelings, my imagination, were in wild.
What helped me, I know was Gary putting into my heart and mind that this is a fight.
It's been a challenge for all mankind that if you make a heart on them, they don't love you.
Satan said that about Jehovah and individuals. So I would be giving into that.
The strong feelings I had in my sorrow almost made me stop.
I prayed a lot to go back to the Kingdom of all.
The congregation cried. They lost a little boy.
It wasn't just Gary and Beth. They lost a little boy. They cried.
I didn't feel alone. We hugged, we cried together.
It really benefited us to get right back in the spiritual focus and get our mind up ourselves.
And I could have gave in to my pain and thought, well, I'm too heartbroken.
It made me have more joy because I realize that now they have all.
People around us were vital. The support system Jehovah has.
And his word, his spirit, Jehovah answered those prayers.
Our goal was really to stay in the full-time ministry.
Maybe doing something else, but we never ever thought we would be in the circuit work.
But to have our daughter working with their husband in the circuit work, it's almost hard to believe it's happening.
We look forward to seeing Jared again having him back with us.
So I'm waning and I know I'm not going to be disappointed.
How encouraging to know that Gary and Beth are able to take vacation time to travel occasionally to see their daughter and her husband,
who are also serving in the traveling work.
And did you notice how Gary, Beth, and Jared felt Jehovah's loving support as they prayed throughout this heart-wrenching trial?
They asked for wisdom when seeking medical treatment for Jared.
Jehovah put his arms around them and listened when they felt overwhelmed with grief and negative feelings.
He strengthened Jared's hope in the resurrection and helped brother and sister-sector stay spiritually strong.
Can there be any doubt that Jehovah was answering their prayers?
Doesn't that strengthen our conviction that Jehovah will also answer Jared's prayer that they all will be together again?
No, Jehovah didn't miraculously cure Jared.
But through his endurance and strong faith, Jerry gives a witness to the universe that even a child that trust in Jehovah can prove his loyalty to death.
Now, other situations may turn out differently and not end up in death.
If an individual feels that relief was because of Jehovah's intervention, he should certainly give thanks.
However, we must recognize that Jehovah knows the best way to handle matters so that it results in honor to his name and to the lasting good of his servants.
Finally, it's worth mentioning that the Bible often connects our remaining spiritually alert with our need to pray.
At Matthew 26.41, Jesus said, keep on the watch and pray continually.
At first Peter 4.7, Peter wrote,
but the end of all things has drawn close, therefore be sound in mind and be vigilant with a view to prayers.
Indeed, our prayers are so important, our personal prayers will help us to remain spiritually alert and active in God's service as we await the great tribulation that lies just ahead of us.
So in summary, our prayers to Jehovah reveal the closeness of our relationship with Him and the degree of our dependence upon Him.
They show the trueness of our faith, the depth of our devotion and the genuineness of our appreciation.
Our prayers also help us remain spiritually alert as we endure these last days before the great tribulation.
We'll be drawn even closer to Jehovah when we learn to recognize his answers to our prayers.
Yes, we can be assured that Jehovah will not fail in giving us the desires of our heart as we continue rendering him sacred service.
May we all cherish our marvelous, miraculous privilege of prayer.
Let's look at one practical example when prayer is of utmost importance, when confronted with the powers of wicked spirits.
Spiritism is very real and dangerous. Yet with Jehovah's help, people can break free from its hold.
In this dramatization, notice how one sister helped her Bible student to do that.
Emma and I were so worried about her Bible study, Balessa.
She had spent another sleepless night after again hearing a dead grandmother's voice.
Plus, the sound of slamming doors and items crashing in the house.
Balessa put an amulet on a baby's wrist for protection, but the terror continued all night long.
Of course, it wasn't really her grandmother and nothing in the house was broken, but the attack was real.
Stories about the spirit world were new to me.
Our neighbors, the people I work with, the people in our territory.
Almost everyone believes in spirit, whether they admit it or not.
No, more than believe, they fear them.
I had only been studying the Bible about six months longer than Balessa.
But my study had proved to me that wicked spirits are here on earth, that they try to interact with people, and that they are dangerous enemies.
Emma called her elders for help. She didn't want us to handle a situation on our own.
As Emma told the story, I had to speak up and tell the elders that she was living things out.
But I was surprised when the elders said they didn't need all the details.
They explained that while we are aware of the danger that demons pose, we do not spend time talking about their activities.
Even Jesus, when he was on earth, could have told his disciples many stories about the doings of wicked spirit.
But instead, he focused on Jehovah and his activities.
We should do the same, instead of telling stories about what the demons may or may not have done.
The elders skillfully used the Bible, shepherding everyone.
We read Ephesians 6 verse 11,
We put on the complete suit of armor from God, so that you may be able to stand firm against the crafty acts of the devil.
Those instructions were so important.
A soldier would be vulnerable if he only wore part of his armor, or if he didn't keep it in good repay.
Then, we read Ephesians 4 verse 27,
Do not give the devil an opportunity.
The elders explained to Baleza that the string around the daughter's wrist is not part of the armor from God.
Instead, it is giving Satan an opportunity to continue to arrest the family.
The brothers reminded us that anyone who wants Jehovah's protection must completely break free from anything associated with superstition, spiritism and demon worship.
Who would ever choose to side with wicked spirits instead of with Jehovah?
Emma reminded Baleza of how agent the situation was.
But only Baleza could decide what she would do.
I want to be a loyal servant of Jehovah.
That's why I'm getting baptized.
I've decided not to listen to or tell any more stories about the demons.
But more than that, I needed to look at other parts of my life.
Am I doing anything that would give the devil an opportunity?
Clearly, there are still changes I need to make.
Did you notice how they prayed for Jehovah's direction?
They followed the principle of Psalm 37-5.
Commit your way to Jehovah, rely on him, and he will act in your behalf.
And as you notice, as he's committing his life course to Jehovah,
Thomas's Christian conscience has now started to guide him.
And he likely realizes that he has to safeguard his heart from things that may tempt him.
In this Bethel morning worship, Brother Morris of the governing body
helps us to see why it requires effort to protect our relationship with Jehovah.
This morning's what we talk about, accepting the facts about our figurative heart
and how that safeguards our relationship with Jehovah.
Let's read today's text in its entirety.
Jeremiah chapter 17.
And what a soul-bring inspired thought from our Heavenly Father.
Jeremiah 17 and will reverse nine.
The heart is more treacherous than anything else and is desperate.
So there we have it. That's the truth.
That's what your Jehovah makes very clear to us.
That each and every one of us have to deal with a treacherous or deceitful figurative heart.
And how encompassing the expression here more treacherous than anything else, my?
And what complicates it even more is its desperate.
It always wants its way.
So a lot to meditate on.
And now, Jehovah put it here for the very reason we have to accept this fact.
And it's a safeguard of relationship with him.
We have to accept that this is the case.
And you could be a fine Christian for many years.
A mature, nice outlook, nice attitude.
But if you ever find yourself forgetting Jehovah's estimation
of what we have within us in our figurative heart, then we're in danger.
Because the devil will always exploit the fact that our imperfect figurative hearts are treacherous,
deceitful, more than anything else and is desperate.
So accepting that fact, it's not that you want to dwell on,
it's our feeling of what a miserable person I am, even though that is something the Apostle Paul acknowledged,
it's just accepting the fact.
And then we're cautious about allowing the treacherous heart to lead us astray.
Now, perhaps you haven't thought about this in a while,
but notice what Jesus said, fundamental truth for all of us here in Matthew 6.
And what we sometimes refer to as the model prayer,
Matthew 6, and a lot of spiritual food for thought.
Of course, anything Jesus said is spiritual food for thought.
And verse 13 of Matthew 6,
and do not bring us into temptation,
but deliver us from the wicked one.
So, been there for all these years,
we could personally reflect on when's the last time we mentioned that in a prayer to our Father, Jehovah.
Do not bring us into temptation, but deliver us from the wicked one, or rescues from the wicked one.
What are we really saying there?
Well, we're asking our Heavenly Father to guide and help us,
so that we're not overreached by Satan.
Very simple.
But the closer we get to the end,
Magnumostec gets even more urgent to keep in mind the need to beg Jehovah.
It's not bring us into temptation to guide us so that we'll be delivered from this wicked one
who wants to exploit the fact that we have a treacherous, traitorous figure of heart,
and that can ruin our relationship with Jehovah personally.
Now, the Apostle Paul recognized this,
and it's quite interesting what he wrote to his beloved brothers and Thessalonians at first letter,
so if you'd find first Thessalonians in chapter 3,
found this quite revealing,
and tying in with the thought of accepting the facts about our figurative heart safeguards,
our relationship with our God and Father, Jehovah.
First, that's only chapter 3 and verse 5.
Paul writes,
That is why when I could bear it no longer,
I sent to learn of your faithfulness, now notice, in case somehow,
the tempter might have tempted you,
and our labor might have turned out to be in vain.
So, hitting it into any specific detail,
but it helps us to appreciate that there's this danger that somehow,
the tempter, Satan, the devil, might tempt us.
Connected with the need to beg Jehovah to deliver us,
or rescues from the wicked one,
in his effort to tempt us to break our integrity,
and our cherished relationship with Jehovah being damaged.
So, he knows the heart stretchers,
and whoever we are, and however long we've been in the truth,
remember what Paul wrote to the Thessalonians, somehow,
because he's always looking to somehow lead us
into breaking our integrity to Jehovah God.
Now, if you think of Revelation chapter 12,
and where we are in this stream of time,
this occurred to me when it was preparing these thoughts here,
Revelation 12, very familiar thoughts here,
devils expelled from the heavens in the demons,
and notice a familiar verse 12, Revelation 12,
on this account be glad you heavens, and boy, they're rejoicing.
Was it residing them?
And that's an exclamation.
Notice though, woe for the earth and for the sea,
because the devil has come down to you having great anger,
knowing that he has a short period of time.
Well, if that was true after he was ousted from the heavens,
what do you think about now?
So sobering, we want to safeguard our relationship with Jehovah,
because it actually, notice verse 17, same chapter.
So the dragon became enraged.
Great anger is very good.
Let's see, he's enraged, and he's waging war with the remnant,
brings out here, and those that observe the commandments of God.
Anyone supporting the remnant, this is a war.
And the war is, these out to somehow,
cause us to break our integrity with our precious Heavenly Father.
So this helps us to appreciate, even though it was long before,
the thoughts here in Revelation and with Jesus taught us,
in Proverbs chapter 4, it still helps us more than all else
that's to be guarded, safeguard your heart,
for out of it are the sources of life.
So even then, the recognition that we have to safeguard our heart,
and accepting the fact that our heart, our figurative heart,
is treacherous, that'll safeguard our precious relationship
with Jehovah God.
Now to help us with that, notice what Paul wrote,
very familiar verses in 2 Timothy chapter 3,
and we've used this in the ministry many times,
and you'd think about it as it connects with safeguarding
our hearts and accepting the fact that it's treacherous,
that we won't break our integrity,
or allow the devil to somehow cause us to break our integrity.
2 Timothy chapter 3, and you'll notice what we're emphasizing here.
The fact is in verse 16, all scripture is inspired by God,
but notice the benefits, so it's for teaching,
it's for reproving, setting things straight.
See the point here though, for disciplining and righteousness.
So you think of that maybe on your Bible study,
I use the Bible to discipline my Bible study,
get God's thinking, and it's appropriate elders use the Scriptures
to discipline.
However, we want to emphasize here for you,
when you're doing your personal Bible reading,
many of us let the Scriptures discipline
that treacherous heart.
So it's a mirror when something hits you,
because maybe you've had wrong thinking,
there could be all sorts of things,
anything that could lead us astray
and cause us to break our integrity, just face the fact.
It's just between you and Jehovah,
you're reading it and let it discipline in righteousness.
And that's what's going to enable us to protect
our precious relationship with Jehovah God.
So we all have to face that fact,
as we mentioned, our figurative heart is treacherous,
it's a traitor, but what's wonderful
is we're confident Jehovah loves us.
So when you made that estimation in Jeremiah,
it's motivated by His love.
So that helps us to protect our relationship with Him,
facing that fact.
That's the way it is.
So indeed, we accept the fact about our figurative heart,
but we're determined to protect
and safeguard our precious relationship with Jehovah God.
Yes, praying for Jehovah's help
is an important tool in safeguarding our heart.
And having a desire to protect our relationship with Jehovah
is closely linked to how much we appreciate
what He's done for us.
Our appreciation moves us to action
and strengthens our faith in Him.
Such appreciation is highlighted in this month's
music video, which is entitled, thankful.
The lines grow in mountains in the distance,
wind blowing through the fields,
hope the sun cast them down from the sky.
Birds fly up above clouds rolling by.
What did I do?
See such pain there?
And what do I do?
To show how much I care?
I gotta be thankful.
Tell Jehovah God.
Did you notice one way of expressing our gratitude to Jehovah?
Yes, by means of prayer.
Having that channel to the sovereign of the universe
is a benefit of being His people.
And speaking of being Jehovah's people,
in last month's program,
we had an opportunity to visit one of the museums
at World Headquarters in Warwick, New York.
But there's more to see.
Let's join Brother John Akron,
a helper to the coordinators committee on another visit.
And this time, we'll stop by a museum called
a People for Jehovah's Name.
Do you enjoy a good story?
If so, you're in for a special treat.
A people for Jehovah's Name
at World Headquarters in Warwick
is more than a history museum.
It's the modern-day story of a people seeking
to know the true God and to do His will.
But this isn't just any story.
It's our story.
So let's take a thrilling journey back in time.
The story unfolds on the narrative wall
and in several galleries along the way.
We begin in the 1870s,
when a small group in Allegheny, Pennsylvania
decided to re-examine the Bible.
As C.T. Russell reasoned,
all the creeds of Christendom
claim to be founded on the Bible.
And these are conflicting.
Is it possible that the Bible
has been misrepresented?
The more they learned, the more they wanted to share.
So in 1879,
they began publishing Zion's Watchtower.
Readers were soon taking a stand
for the truths that they were learning.
Listen.
What I want to tell you is this.
I am free.
The truth has made me free.
Today, I was excluded from the Baptist Church.
So I am all alone in the flesh,
but not in the spirit.
They became known as the Bible students.
And they soon realized that people
everywhere should hear the good news.
But how could this small group
preach the Bible's message,
Earthwide?
Transcontinental and international tours
helped them to see how they could expand
their preaching work even further.
In just one tour, beginning in December 1911,
C.T. Russell and his associates
traveled completely around the world.
Let's imagine what it was like
to live in those exciting times.
In this gallery, you can experience
what life was like for Pilgrim,
or what we today call a circuit overseer.
Here's a Pilgrim's formal jacket
that he'd wear when giving a public talk.
The Bible students offered the studies
in the scriptures series in the ministry,
and they carried lists to locate
and visit Watchtower subscribers.
Then in 1914,
they presented the exciting photo drama of creation.
Its purpose was to build faith in the Bible
as God's inspired word.
It was an innovative combination of
moving pictures, sound recordings,
and beautiful hand-colored glass slides.
Hundreds of people reenacted Bible scenes.
Some with live animals.
Was this enormous work worth all the effort?
Dear Brother Russell,
I want to thank you so much
for the privilege of seeing the photo drama of creation.
I had never thought to live to see
the everlasting gospel preach to those
who dwell on the earth,
yet so it is.
Words cannot tell you how my heart rejoices.
Your sister, F.E. Riley.
By the end of 1914,
over nine million had viewed it.
But with such success,
the Bible students didn't realize
what tests lay ahead.
The Gentile times have ended.
Their kings have had their day.
So we know not what awaits us.
World War I broke out in 1914.
Then in 1916, the death of C.T. Russell
left the Bible students in shock.
It was a unique time of testing.
Inside the organization,
some struggled over who should take the lead.
Outside, governments tried to force them
to take sides in the war.
Then, in 1918,
Jeff Rutherford and seven of his
close associates were imprisoned.
Was this the end for the Bible students?
Or would they prove to be a people
for Jehovah's name?
The joy that came with the release of our brothers
from the Atlanta Federal Prison on Tuesday,
March 25, 1919, knew no bounds.
Their further devotion to Jehovah
was shown in the fact that they immediately
set to work to herald forth
to the people of God everywhere
the knowledge of Jehovah's deliverance,
Thomas Sullivan.
The Bible students moved forward with renewed zeal,
but the opposition didn't end there.
In this gallery, you will see how our brothers and sisters
have stood firm for their faith.
In Russia, a father imprisoned for ten years
encouraged his young daughters with hand-drawn postcards.
In Greece, a son used the same blanket in prison
that his father used when imprisoned before him.
It was an encouraging reminder of his father's integrity.
In Korea, witnesses were locked in tiny cells
for up to 30 days at a time.
When you stand in the lighted outline,
you get a sense of what it was like.
All of these brothers and sisters
look beyond the prison bars
to their firm hope for the future.
As light from God's word increased,
the Bible students humbly let go of cherished
but unscriptural traditions.
Songs used in worship were examined
in the light of what the Bible taught.
The people for Jehovah's name
were becoming even more evident.
So in 1931, they were thrilled
to take on their new name Jehovah's Witnesses.
Then in 1935, Brother Rutherford identified
the great multitude of other sheep
who served alongside the anointed.
At the climax of his talk, he asked,
Will all those who have the hope
of living forever on the earth please stand?
With this new understanding,
they saw the true scope of Jesus' commission
to make disciples.
New and innovative methods were needed.
Our third gallery shows the preaching methods
used in the 1930s and 1940s.
Radio was a powerful way
to spread the kingdom message to large audiences.
They also used large funnagrass
called portable transcription machines
with loudspeakers mounted on sound cars.
Brothers played recorded talks
wherever people gathered.
Lighter funnagrass were also designed and produced,
so publishers could take the recorded message
directly to people at home.
These methods helped bring unity to the message,
but the time had come
to train each one of Jehovah's people
to be an effective witness.
Schools were started.
The course in theocratic ministry
trained publishers in the congregation,
and the Bible School of Gilead
began training missionaries for global expansion.
We had entered into a new era of divine education,
and we were about to receive an amazing tool.
In 1950, we received the New World translation
of the Christian Greek scriptures,
and by 1961, the complete Bible was released.
Since then, we've seen our tools continue to improve
with the wise use of modern technology.
From high speed printing,
to the internet and video,
these methods help us to stay unified,
reach millions with the good news,
and glorify God.
Yes, this museum's story is about people,
but not just any people.
We are a people for Jehovah's name.
Only one question remains,
what will you contribute to this wonderful story?
This month, after discussing the theme,
cherish your privilege of prayer,
we saw how we should act when we encounter spiritism.
When counteracting wicked spirits,
praying for Jehovah's guidance is very important.
Next, Brother Maurice showed us the importance of praying
to protect our heart.
And the music video reminded us of not forgetting
to thank Jehovah for everything he's given us.
The provision of communicating with Jehovah
is a privilege we have of being his people.
A visit to Warwick Bethel showed us how Jehovah
has guided his people in modern times.
Before we conclude,
we'll visit the remote translation office
in Chinley, Arizona in the United States.
Located in the southwestern part of the country,
the region is home to many native peoples and tribes.
European settlers arrived in the 1500s.
Throughout the many years since then,
many of the tribes were able to retain their culture and language.
Currently, the United States branch
translates into several indigenous languages,
including Cherokee, Hopi, Lakota, and Navajo.
To help with that work, in 2015,
a remote translation office, or RTO,
was built in Chinley, which is in the heart of the Navajo Nation.
Over 100 volunteers, of which 13 are full-time servants,
work at the RTO.
The Navajo field has over 430 publishers,
including approximately 130 regular pioneers,
and some 20 special pioneers.
The literature, videos, and audio publications
translated at the RTO are distributed to eight Navajo congregations,
11 groups, and five pre-groups.
For the past five years, three-day regional conventions
have been held in the Navajo language.
In 2018, they had a peak attendance of 471 with one baptized.
The volunteers at the RTO in Chinley
send their warm, Christian love to all of us around the world,
and we love them dearly.
This is J. W. Broadcasting,
from the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses.